{
                "snippet": "I.    GENERAL
      A.     This order supersedes and rescinds General Order No.1 dated November 30,
             2010.

      B.     It is the purpose of this order to limit the number of administrative and
             operational policies and procedures in use at Portland Fire & Rescue (PF&R), to
             explain briefly their intended function and to provide direction regarding their
             filing and disposition.

      C.     All PF&R General Orders (G.O.s), Operational Guidelines (O.G.s), and other
             policies must first be submitted to the appropriate review personnel. All G.O.s
             and O. G.s are to be submitted to the Publications Committee. All other policies
             must be submitted to the Senior Administrative Specialist in the Management
             Services Division (MSD), except as identified in I.D. Following the review of
             either the Publications Committee or Senior Administrative Specialist, the
             Leadership Team will review and approve the G.O., O.G, or other policy. These
             steps must be completed prior to publication and distribution.

      D.     Approval authority and policy management. The Leadership Team has
             delegated authority for final approval for some policies and procedures as
             follows:

             1.      The Leadership Team must approve all new and/or major revisions to
                     General Orders and Rules and Regulations. Minor or purely technical
                     revisions do not need to be approved by the Leadership Team.

             2.      The Medical Services & Training Chief is responsible for Training Memos
                     and Operational Guidelines.

             3.      The Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Battalion Chief is responsible for
                     EMS Protocols, the EMS Reference Guide and the Exposure Control Plan.

             4.      The Fire Marshal is responsible for Fire Marshal Office (FMO) Policies.
                     Policies developed by the FMO, which are posted on the City Auditor’s
                     website and specifically intended to provide clarification and guidance to

                     the public, will follow the FMO review and approval procedures as
                     outlined in the FMO Policy AA-1 Policy & Procedure Manual.

            5.       The MSD Senior Business Operations Manager is responsible for
                     Administrative Policies.

            6.       The Emergency Operations (EOPS) Division Chief is responsible for
                     Emergency Operations Policies and Map Book Revisions.

            7.       Division Managers are responsible for special interest procedures within
                     their division.

      E.    All PF&R members (sworn and non-sworn) shall be held accountable for
            procedures or practices directed in PF&R policies and procedures as they pertain
            to their respective assignments or jobs.

      F.    All policies and procedures shall be reviewed for content accuracy and relevancy
            every 24 months.

      G.    The MSD – Administrative Services Section will be responsible for coordinating
            policy and procedure maintenance, including, but not limited to:

            1.       Ensuring that all policy and procedure documents are up-to-date and
                     current on PF&R’s intranet website.

            2.       Establishing and maintaining a tracking system for PF&R policies and
                     procedures. This tracking system will:

                     a.    Provide an index for all policies and procedures;

                     b.    Include a system (a date-labeled file system that organizes the
                           policies and procedures in a way that allows time-sensitive
                           documents to be filed according to the future date on which each
                           document needs action); and

                     c.    Be searchable by date, topic, division, responsible party, etc.

            3.       Establish and maintain a standard policy and procedure format (similar to
                     that of Operational Guidelines) to be used for all PF&R policies and
                     procedures (with exception of memorandums). See Attachment #1 –
                     Standard Format Samples.

            4.       Provide a detailed flowchart showing the process for revising PF&R G.O.s
                     & O.G.’s. See Attachment #2 - PF&R Policy Administration Flow Chart.




            5.       Notify Key Contact when it’s time to review a general order or operational
                     guideline. See Attachment #3 - Policy and Procedures Update Tracking
                     Form.

            6.       Maintains an up to date Key Contact List and Table of Contents.

      H.    The Medical Services and Training Division will be responsible for notifying all
            employees via e-mail when new or revised G.O.s or O.G.s have been approved.
            The document will be sent to all employees with any changes or revisions
            highlighted (usually through the track changes function and in color) so that the
            changes are easily identified. At this time, the Medical Services and Training
            Division will also upload the approved PDF copy of the O.G., G.O., or other
            policy on PF&R’s intranet.",
                "instruction": "Create study flashcards from the given text snippet. Provide no extra dialogue - only Q/A pairs. Answers should be short (1-6) words. Create multiple flashcards as needed for longer sentences."
}
